Why does product design matter?
Why is this such an important area that
has become such a growth area, and so
many people are starting to say, hey,
I'm a product designer now, right?
Well, it's because product design,
not dissimilar to UX design really,
has a big impact on the success or
failure of any web app, right?
So, product design, for example,
is incredibly important
in customer acquisition.
An easy-to-use web app that allows
people to solve a real pain point will
grow organically.
And before you think, yeah, but
I work on web apps internally
within organizations, right?
So therefore, everybody has to use it,
no they don't, right?
People are the number of times if there's
a quicker and easier way that circumvents
your bit of software because
your bit of software sucks.
People will use that alternative approach,
okay, and I see this again and again.
Intranets are the best
example of this ever,
intranets is where content goes to die,
right?
Because nobody likes their intranet.
It's always some bit of software that
has been developed with little or
no thought to the user experience.
So, product design can really help with
customer acquisition is also really
valuable when it comes to
customer retention, right?
So, keeping people using that app, right?
If people build up a procedural
knowledge of how to use it,
how to get something done in that app,
then they can be very hesitant and
reluctant to move to another app.
And actually,
Figma is a great example of this, right?
So, we've got, well,
we used to have Adobe XD,
although I believe that's Rest
in Peace now, if I'm right.
So, you used to have Adobe XD.
Today we we've got sketch and we've got
Figma the probably the word the big three,
right, and don't get angry me yes,
there are other options available.
But those are tend to be the big three.
But for
a longest time I used to use sketch and
Figma became superior to sketch for
a long time and I kind of knew it was,
that it had features that were better,
but I couldn't be asked.
I couldn't be asked to learn a new
platform, a new bit of software.
And that's because the product design
on Sketch was good enough, right,
it was great.
It did what I wanted it to.
Okay, I didn't have all the features
of Figma, but I knew how it worked, and
I was comfortable with it that, so product
design kept me on Sketch for a long time,
even though the other product was superior
in terms of functionality, interesting.
And the other reason why
product design can be so
invaluable is cuz of cost savings.
Now, this is a little bit of a surprising
one because it kinda comes out
in lots of different ways.
So certainly, the most obvious example
of this is if it's an internal app.
And for those people that have
seen my user research and
testing workshop,
I apologize because I'm gonna use
exactly the same analogy of
story that I used on that.
But I remember a time my
long-suffering wife, right?
I went out for
lunch with my long-suffering wife, and
she knows what I'm like.
And we went to a restaurant called
Pizza Express which is a chain restaurant
in the UK.
And the lady came to take our order and
she was tapping away on a her basically
in house app to place the order.
And I started to think it's
taken a long time, right?
And I looked at my wife and
she knew exactly what I
was thinking rolled her eyes
that disgust at me that and so
I started mentally counting how long it
was taking her to place this order, right?
And so, the minute the waitress went away,
my wife said to me,
go on then get it outta your system,
and I said, right, okay.
If that took 10 seconds extra,
if I could squeeze off 10
seconds from that,
the length of time it took to do that.
And if they do 10 seconds per order,
average of 4 orders per table times by,
let's guess a x number of sittings in
this particular restaurant per day.
And then I got my phone out and looked
up on Wikipedia how many restaurants
they've got around the around the world or
at times that, that's how much per day.
10 seconds per day,
average salary value of a waiter your
minimum wage I could save
Pizza Express 1.2 million a year in
salary bills by improving this
app by 10 seconds, right?
I've made that 1.2 million up,
it wasn't that high.
But that is the power of product
design is being able to do that.
But also there can be cost
savings in other ways.
Those first two things, the customer
acquisition, a customer, attention.
Do you know the amount it costs
to acquire a new customer?
Right, it's incredibly high, so
if we can keep the customers with good
product design that's far better.